

**Reading Comprehension**

Directions: Read the following passages carefully and choose the best
answer from the four choices marked A, B, C and D.

## Passage 1-1

Questions 1 to 5 are based on the following passage .

I'm beginning to wonder whether my grandmother isn't right when she
complains, as she frequently does, that children nowadays aren't as
well-mannered as they used to be. Whenever she gets the opportunity, she
describes in detail how she used to be told to respect her elders and
betters. She was taught to speak only when she was spoken to, and when
she went out on her own, she was reminded to say "please" and "thank
you". Children in her day, she continues, were expected to be seen and
not heard, but these days you are lucky if you ever hear parents telling
their children to mind their p's and q's.

If you give her the chance she then takes out of her desk the old
photograph album which she keeps there, and which she never tires of
displaying. Of course when you look at pictures of her parents you feel
sure that, with a father as hard-looking as that, you, too, would have
been "seen and not heard". Beside him sits his wife, with their
children around her: Granny and her elder brothers. It always occurs to
me that perhaps those long, stiff, black clothes were very heavy to a
little girl, that she hadn't enough breath left to talk, let alone bad.
It must have been a dull and lonely life too, for she stayed mainly at
home during her childhood, while her brothers were sent away to school
from an early age.

That said, my childhood was much freer than Granny's. I went to school
with my brother, and I played football with him and his friends. We all
spoke a common language and we got up to the same trouble. I would have
died if I had had to stay indoors, wear a tight frock (女式礼服), and
sew.

1\. How can we understand "children in her day were expected to be seen
and not heard"?

A. Children were not supposed to be heard by others.

B. Children were not supposed to hear their parents' conversation.

C. Children were not supposed to speak in the face of others.

D. Children were not supposed to speak until asked to do it.

2\. What is the expression of "mind their p's and q's" supposed to
mean?

A. To mind their own business.

B. To remember to say "please".

C. To remember to say "thank you".

D. To be well-mannered.

3\. Which of the following words can be used to describe Granny's
feelings of her own childhood?

A. Lonely.

B. Dull.

C. Proud.

D. Happy.

4\. How did the author feel about her Granny's childhood?

A. Disappointed.

B. Unbearable.

C. Respectable.

D. Indifferent.

5\. Why did Granny often complain about modern children's behavior?

A. She missed those good old days.

B. She was too harsh on children.

C. She didn't like kids who talk a lot.

D. She was not open to new things.

## Passage 1-2

Questions 6 to 10 are based on the following passage .

Is breakfast the most important meal of the day? My generation certainly
grew up hearing and believing in this statement, which doesn't stop
most of us from rushing out in the morning with only a cup of coffee and
a piece of toast. However, in an estimated 40 percent of American
families there isn't even an adult present in the kitchen to urge
children to finish their breakfast. So, more children avoid breakfast
than any other meal.

While no one has proven that breakfast is the most important meal of the
day, it's at least of equal importance with lunch and dinner. Experts
warn that your body burns the energy from food within four hours.
Although you may use up less energy while you sleep, it's a long time
until morning and you still wake up with the need for lots more fuel.

Some studies have shown that children who avoid breakfast don't do as
well in school. Besides lack of energy, we all know how tough it is to
focus when your stomach's making noises and you're counting hours
until lunch.

In addition, a recent Canadian study suggests that avoiding breakfast
may increase the chance of a heart attack. It's been known that the
incidence of heart attacks is highest in the first few hours after
waking.

So, there's no doubt the importance of breakfast is more than just an
old wives' tale. The problem comes in following the advice. How do you
find time to make a proper meal and then make time to eat it?

The American Health Association recommends that breakfast should supply
at least one-fourth of the daily food needs. And it's important to
include a variety of foods to supply energy until the next meal. Foods
like bread can be digested (消化) in as little as 30 minutes; however,
foods like eggs, milk, meat, and cheese last longer, and can help you
make it to lunchtime.

6\. Today the saying "Breakfast is the most important meal of the day"
is .

A. paid less attention to

B. totally out of date

C. no longer a truth

D. of no value

7\. According to the passage breakfast is lunch and dinner.

A. better than

B. less important than

C. as important as

D. more important than

8\. The passage mentions that not having breakfast can cause children to
have trouble \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. listening

B. focusing

C. exercising

D. waiting

9\. People who do not have breakfast may be more likely to .

A. get more work done

B. have frequent headaches

C. lose too much weight

D. suffer from heart disease

10\. Having various foods for breakfast .

A. means you can eat less for lunch

B. can supply you with energy until lunch

C. may make you successful in the day

D. will give you warmth the whole day

## Passage 1-3

Questions 11 to 15 are based on the following passage .

A man was telling one of his friends why he was content with his married
life. "My wife makes all the small decisions," he explained, "and I
make all the big ones, so we never try to have too much influence on
each other's business and never get angry with each other. We have no
complaints and no arguments."

"That sounds reasonable," answered his friend. "And what sort of
decisions does your wife make?"

"Well," answered the man, "she decides what jobs I apply for, what
sort of house we live in, what furniture we have, where we go for our
holidays, and things like that."

His friend was surprised. "Oh?" he said. "And what do you consider
important decisions then?"

"Well," answered the man, "I decide who should be President, whether
we should increase our help to poor countries, what we should do about
the atom bomb (原子弹), and things like that."

11\. The man was content with his married life because
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. he and his wife talk about every decision they make

B. he has more power than his wife does in family life

C. he and his wife are responsible for different things

D. he has many good friends and influence in the world

12\. What does the man's friend think at first?

A. He thought that their marriage couldn't work.

B. He thought that the man had too much power.

C. He thought that the wife had too much power.

D. He thought that their arrangement sounded fine.

13\. The wife lets the man decide \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. which house to buy

B. where to work

C. where to travel

D. who should be President

14\. We can tell from the story that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. the man's wife has the final say in the family

B. the man has the final say in the family

C. the man's friend will follow his example

D. the man and his wife respect each other

15\. A good title for this passage is
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. A man and his friend

B. A loving husband

C. A happy married life

D. A choice for President

## Passage 1-4

Questions 16 to 20 are based on the following passage .

Is your job doing harm to your health? If you are like a lot of American
workers today, you experience a significant amount of stress in work.
Stress doesn't just make you unhappy at work. It can affect your
health. Doctors say people under stress have higher blood pressure, even
when they are away from work. And they are at a higher risk for death
from any cause than those who are more relaxed.

How do you know if your job could be a risk to your health? Some danger
signs include difficulty getting to sleep or difficulty waking up in the
morning, forgetfulness, aches and pains for no apparent reason, a desire
to eat less or tendency to eat poorly, loss of interest in activities,
etc. Everyone has bad days in which they feel many of these symptoms,
but if you have noticed several of them, and you have experienced them
for months, you may need to do something.

If you notice these signs in yourself or your beloved one, check with
your doctor to eliminate other possibilities. If the cause does appear
to be stress, you should try to make time for yourself away from work.
Try relaxing in a warm bubble bath, listening to music, and shutting out
the world for a while.

16\. According to the passage, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. many American workers are under stress lately

B. almost all people know how to get rid of stress

C. most people go to doctors for help with stress

D. it is sure that our work is doing harm to our health

17\. How does stress at work affect your life?

A. It makes you unhappy at work.

B. It always affects your health.

C. It makes you worry all the time.

D. It keeps you from working well.

18\. Which of the following is mentioned as a sign that your job is
unhealthy?

A. Sudden aches and pains.

B. Frequent bad days.

C. Trouble remembering.

D. Loss of time to relax.

19\. When should you do something about your problems?

A. When you've been told by others that you should do something.

B. When you've noticed several bad symptoms over a long time.

C. When you've let stress affect your friendships or life at work.

D. When you've visited a doctor and he has told you to leave work.

20\. What can you do if you've noticed some of the signs of stress?

A. See a doctor and try to relax more.

B. Change to another less stressful job.

C. Assume much fewer responsibilities.

D. Take up a hobby like playing music.

## Passage 1-5

Questions 21 to 25 are based on the following passage .

Open or distance learning has had a major effect on higher education
through the Open University, the only university to provide education
exclusively for adult learners studying at a distance. Our 100,000
students are currently studying at the Open University. We found limited
development of distance learning in the case studies, with the exception
of some postgraduate and professional courses. Even here, however, there
seemed to be limits on further growth because of the high costs involved
in setting up new distance learning courses, as well as uncertainties of
demand (particularly in terms of the perceived financial returns on
study). One of the case study universities provided video facilities and
visiting staff to a rural area for a group of undergraduate students
about 50 miles away. This was a new development which was working well
and likely to be expanded to involve other universities.

The main reason for general lack of development of distance learning,
especially at the undergraduate level, may be that other universities
have been unable to afford the considerable set-up costs and student
support facilities. As costs of technology come down this might change.
The Open Learning Foundation is developing connections between
universities to set open learning approaches within existing programs of
study and thus encourage their greater use. This is seen as likely to
develop further in the future.

21\. The Open University provides an education for
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. students who do not like attending regular universities

B. students who failed the College Entrance Examination

C. students who are adults and away from a university

D. students who are limited in their ability to learn

22\. Among other things, the further growth of distance learning at
postgraduate and professional levels is limited by
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. the high costs involved

B. a low student demand

C. a lack of education

D. the poor rural technology

23\. The attempt of one case study university to provide equipment and
staff to a rural group of students \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. would be expanded

B. did not work well

C. might help learning

D. could cost a lot

24\. The cost of setting up a distance learning program might change
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. as new developments are made

B. as more students take classes there

C. as the Open University helps more

D. as technology becomes cheaper

25\. The tone of this passage can best be described as
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. discouraging

B. encouraging

C. persuasive

D. scientific

## Passage 2-1

Questions 1 to 5 are based on the following passage .

It might be surprising for some people to believe that, in today's
computer-and-Internet-driven society, there are some book publishers
that are still committed to traditional books. Maybe the most famous
encyclopedia company, The Encyclopaedia Britannica, which dates back to
the 18th century, is planning to release their largest set of books in
2001. This 40-volume set will be the largest printed in its 231-year
history.

Because of the success of recent Internet and computer encyclopedias,
some people have suggested that the publishers could turn their back on
print. However, company representative Paul Hoffman said the company is
committed to paper and ink.

"There is still a place for books, even with all of the computer
encyclopedias. And many people around the world still want books," he
said.

Encyclopedias, in book form, are common in library collections and on
school shelves. They are often used in student research. And none are
used more than those published by the Encyclopedia Britannica.

Even so, the company is selling fewer and fewer books and more and more
computer encyclopedias, possibly because of the price. The books, US
\$1450 for a 32-book set, are too expensive for people. The computerized
version, which contains all the same information, costs only a 10th of
the price.

1\. What about the Encyclopedia Britannica is so surprising?

A. The company is committed to publishing books.

B. The company is selling Internet encyclopedias.

C. The company is still open after so many years.

D. The company is planning to quit making books.

2\. What will make the 2001 set of books different from the other sets?

A. It will be the most sold.

B. It will be like the 18th-century one.

C. It will be on the Internet.

D. It will be the largest set.

3\. Why have some people suggested that the company stop printing books?

A. Because people are no longer buying many encyclopedias.

B. Because demand around the world is for ink and paper books.

C. Because electronic encyclopedias have become so successful.

D. Because Paul Hoffman has turned his back on printing books.

4\. What makes the Encyclopedia Britannica's books special?

A. They are used more than any other encyclopedias.

B. They are used more for study than for doing research.

C. They are used in schools and many library collections.

D. They are used in many research papers by students.

5\. Why are more people buying electronic encyclopedias than book
encyclopedias?

A. Electronic encyclopedias contain more.

B. Electronic encyclopedias cost less money.

C. Electronic encyclopedias take up less room.

D. Electronic encyclopedias have new ideas.

## Passage 2-2

Questions 6 to 10 are based on the following passage .

Have you ever felt your mind getting confused after a sleepless night
and you couldn't come up with an original thought no matter how hard
you tried?

You were probably right if you thought that was caused by a lack of
sleep. Dr. Home, a sleep researcher in England, studied 24 college
students. One group got their normal eight hours of sleep. The other
group didn't get any sleep at all---they stayed awake all night. The
next day, Dr. Home tested the students. He asked them questions that
required creative and original thinking. One of the questions was "How
many uses can a box be put to?"

The results? The wide-awake students did well on the tests. The tired
students did poorly.

Research has already shown that tired people can do okay on tests of
routine thinking, like simple addition. But Dr. Home tested creative
thinking only.

As part of his study, he offered an amount of money as a reward to the
tired students if they did well. But even this encouragement wasn't
enough to help the students overcome their tiredness. They still did
poorly. Dr. Home believes that the part of the brain where thinking
takes place may get worn out during waking hours. Sleep may help to
repair the brain overnight. Without any sleep, he emphasizes, "even if
you think harder, you cannot do better."

This study gives people something to think about, especially people like
hospital workers and airplane pilots, who must stay awake all night and
then make emergency decisions.

6\. According to the passage, failure to think of new ideas may be
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. caused by a lack of sleep

B. caused by hard questions

C. caused by a weak brain

D. caused by too much study

7\. Tired people have no problem with
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. finding uses for boxes

B. making creative ideas

C. doing simple math tests

D. taking research tests

8\. The purpose for offering money to the tired students was to
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. help them repair their brains

B. stimulate their interests

C. convince people to join

D. encourage them to do better

9\. Sleep might help people by \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. repairing the brain

B. giving creative dreams

C. providing fresh energy

D. allowing harder thought

10\. This information is useful to people like nurses and pilots because
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. they often meet situations in which they must be creative

B. they often take tests to display their abilities to do their jobs

C. they often go to the hospital because of brain problems

D. they often get little sleep but make important decisions

## Passage 2-3

Questions 11 to 15 are based on following passage .

Rote-learning (死记硬背), spoon-fed education, produces a brand of kids
that don't know what to do when entering university. They are
disciplined into following, not leading. Yet the future depends on
creativity and imagination. The world needs creators, makers and shakers
of the new centuries, not the followers of the past centuries. As the
numbers increase at college and university level, more students from the
lower ends are likely to be thrown into a process designed to choose
only learners that have proved excellent in listening to teachers.

There are three ways to learn: looking, listening and doing.

Students and teachers today are a product of learning by listening. The
computer may not be liked by traditional teachers, who use rote-learning
to put information, which will be out of date in a few years, into the
heads of the students. With computer learning you learn by looking,
listening and doing; you use three methods of learning, not just one.
Therefore, you can learn faster.

The changing speed of information is frightening. What we learn now will
be out of date in the near future. So what students are learning now at
school may be replaced by the time they finish university. We have to
learn by choice what to forget. Rote-learning for exams is one thing,
but wouldn't it be better to learn how to learn? The students at
university today could possibly be doing a job in the not too distant
future which has not yet been invented.

11\. According to the author, the future doesn't need
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. creativity

B. imagination

C. creators

D. followers

12\. In the author's view, how can students learn well?

A. Carefully listen to the teacher in class.

B. Take down every single word said by the teacher.

C. Learn all the notes by heart.

D. Combine listening with looking and doing.

13\. What does the author mean by "The changing speed of information is
frightening"?

A. We don't have enough time to adjust ourselves to the speed of
information.

B. What we learned today may not be useful tomorrow.

C. The pace of life is too fast.

D. The world is changing every minute.

14\. What does the last sentence of the passage tell us?

A. Rote-learning is completely harmful.

B. Students may have to do jobs which are not yet in existence.

C. It's better to learn how to learn than learn what to forget.

D. Students must imagine the future.

15\. The author's attitude towards rote-learning is \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. approving

B. disapproving

C. confident

D. opposite to what the words say

## Passage 2-4

Questions 16 to 20 are based on following passage .

Time spent in a bookshop can be most pleasant, whether you are a
book-lover or merely there to buy a book as a present. You may even have
entered the shop just to find shelter from a sudden shower. Whatever the
reason, you can soon become totally unaware of your surroundings. You
soon focus on some book or other, and usually it is only much later that
you realize you have spent too much time there and must hurry off to
keep some forgotten appointment.

This opportunity to escape the realities of everyday life is the main
attraction of a bookshop. A music shop is very much like a bookshop. You
can range round such places to your heart's content. If it is a good
shop, no assistant will approach you with the greeting, "Can I help
you?" You needn't buy anything you don't want. In a bookshop an
assistant should remain in the background until you have finished
reading. Then, and only then, are his services necessary.

Once a medical student had to read a textbook which was far too
expensive for him to buy. He couldn't obtain it from the library and
the only copy he could find was in a bookshop. Every afternoon,
therefore, he would go to the shop and read a little of the book at a
time. One day, however, he was disappointed to find the book missing
from its usual place. He was about to leave, when he noticed the owner
of the shop making a gesture to him with his hand. Expecting to be
scolded, he went towards him. To his surprise, the owner pointed to the
book which was put away in a corner. "I put it there in case anyone had
a desire to buy it!" he said, and left the delighted student to
continue his reading.

16\. Time spent in a bookshop can be most pleasant
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. only when you can find the book you want to buy

B. only when you are a book-lover

C. even when you enter it to avoid a sudden shower

D. even when you know you are late for an appointment

17\. A bookshop is of much attraction because
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ .

A. it offers you an opportunity to forget about everyday life

B. it offers you an opportunity to listen to as much music as possible

C. it allows you to learn about new ideas and ways of doing things

D. it allows you to have a good excuse for being late for an appointment

18\. In a good bookshop \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. an assistant should always follow you

B. an assistant should frequently approach you and offer help

C. you needn't buy anything you don't want

D. you can communicate freely with an assistant

19\. The medical student went to a bookshop every day
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. to look for useful books

B. to read a textbook

C. to talk with the shop owner

D. to use the computer at the shop

20\. The owner of the bookshop put away the book
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. in case other people wanted to buy it

B. in case the medical student wanted to buy it

C. because he wanted to sell it at a high price

D. because he wanted to keep it for himself

## Passage 2-5

Questions 21 to 25 are based on following passage .

In the United States, it is not normal to telephone someone very early
in the morning. If you telephone him early in the day, while he is
shaving or having breakfast, the time of the call shows that the matter
is very important and requires immediate attention. The same meaning is
attached to telephone calls made after 11:00 p. m. If someone receives a
call during sleeping hours, he assumes it's a matter of life and death.
The time chosen for the call communicates its importance.

In social life, time plays a very important role. In the US guests tend
to feel they are not highly regarded if the invitation to a dinner party
is extended only three or four days before the party date. But this is
not true in all countries. In other areas of the world it may be
considered foolish to make an appointment too far in advance because
plans which are made for a date more than a week away tend to be
forgotten.

The meaning of time is different in different parts of the world. Thus,
misunderstandings arise between people from cultures that treat time
differently. To be on time is valued highly in American life, for
example. If people are not on time, they may be regarded as not polite
or not fully responsible. In the US no one would think of keeping a
business associate waiting for an hour; it would be bad-mannered. A
person who is five minutes late is expected to apologize. If he is less
than five minutes late, he will say a few words of explanation, though
perhaps he will not complete the sentence.

21\. If you telephone someone early in the day, it means
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. you are expected to explain why

B. you are not kind enough

C. you want to show your concern for him

D. you have a very important matter to discuss

22\. The expression "a matter of life and death" means
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. an issue of the greatest importance and emergency

B. a very important appointment

C. a matter of whether someone should live or die

D. a strong desire to communicate

23\. In the US guests tend to feel they are not highly regarded
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. if the invitation to a dinner party is not extended early enough

B. if the invitation to a dinner party is extended too far in advance

C. if the invitation to a dinner party is not extended repeatedly

D. if the invitation to a dinner party is extended to too many people

24\. The word "misunderstanding" can be explained as
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

A. failing to attend a party

B. failing to understand correctly

C. standing in one's way

D. standing on one's own feet

25\. Which of the following statements is NOT true according to the
passage?

A. In the US it's normal to keep someone waiting for some time.

B. In the US it's not polite to keep someone waiting for an hour.

C. In the US one is always expected to be on time.

D. In the US one is expected to apologize if he is five minutes late.
